All right we're nearly there now.
We've got a scoring system.
I'm actually doing really well on this game.
And we've got our pipes display as we want them going on forever and ever.
And we've also got the bud moving and the collision detection working as well.
So what we need is for the game to actually respond when the user hits one of the pipes or indeed the
bottom of the screen them.
And for the game to be over and for the user to be able to tap the screen and start again.
So first off I'm going to quickly download a game over a graphic
so I'm just on Google Images.
And if I scroll down here I'm there we get to work brilliantly.
So we'll go for that one.
Obviously when you're using creating your own games you need to create your own graphics but
this will do it for us.
For now I'll just call this game
and here it is in Preview.
I'm just going to do a resize.
So it's currently two thousand pixels that's plenty.
Five hundred should be more than enough.
And I'm also going to give it a transparent background which is really easy to do on a Mac.
You just in Preview click the instant Alpher magic one there and then just select the part that you
want to be clear.
And then I'm just going to press delete to get rid of that and convert it to P N G because J pegs are
not transparent.
And I'm also just going to make it a little bit smaller just by cropping that there as well.
OK.
So if you want to avoid those steps then you can just download the projects from the link in the next
lecture and it will have the game over image in it.
But we're now going to add this to.
So let's go back over to Android studio and open up the assets folder in find up and then I'm going
to take my game either
g file and just drag it into the assets folder that.
OK so let's create a new text texture for that
great hint text.
Game over.
And then we'll set it up here.
Game over is a new texture.
Using game the PMG.
All right.
Let's just remind ourselves how we want this to work.
We want when we get a collision detected we want the game to stop.
And for the game over.
Don't be angry.
Texture to be displayed on the screen.
We also want the option for the user to then tap on the screen and start the game again.
So let's make that happen.
So the way I'm going to make that happen is by bringing in a new game state.
So so far we've got two game states 0 8 which is the very beginning and one which is playing the game.
So we're now going to have a game state of two.
So that means that the game is over and we want to do that here as well.
So I'm now going to remove the ability to move the bird after it's got to the bottom and
we're just going to have an L statement here to say that if the bird is not above the bottom of the
screen then game state is to say what we want to happen when game state is to where we want all of this
to stop happening which it actually will which is great.
So
this is now only going to happen when game state is equal to 1.
So we're going to have all of that.
First we'll add this if game States is equal to zero.
Let's put the brackets in the right place.
And our final option is if game state is equal to 2.
We don't really need an if that is the only other option but it makes it clear what's going on I think.
So just by the virtue of game state not being won.
All of this stuff is not going to happen so that tubes are going to stop moving which is great.
We'll still have the background which is good and we'll still have the bird which is also good but we
won't have the tubes moving.
So that's great.
The only thing we actually want is our game over message.
So let's draw that
batched draw and we want Game over.
And we want to in the center of the screen say X is going to be GDX graphics don't get with over t minus.
Game over.
Don't get with over two.
And then the same for the y coordinates.
Well almost the same anyway just with get height.
OK so we'll just run that and check.
We should now have a proper game over system that will do everything except restart the game.
So when the game stops the cheaps will start moving the Scoble stop increasing but the bird will keep
flapping which is fine.
And then we're just going to need to add the facility to tap to restart the game.
Here we go.
So let's die.
Fantastic.
There we go.
It's game over.
Possibly a little bit small but I'll leave you to play with that and resize it if you want to.
Notice that we can interact with the screen at all at the moment.
That's absolutely fine.
All we need to do is to copy this code down.
And now we're going to have some interaction.
So what do we want to happen.
Well we definitely want the game state to be equal to one to stop playing the game again.
We want to put the bird back in the middle of the screen.
So we want to do a fair bit of the set up that we did over in the create method up here.
So we want to set bird y back again we don't need to reset the textures or the phones or anything like
that so they can remain as they were.
We do want to set up the tubes again.
But we don't need to do any of this set up again because they're all fixed anyway so this code is what
needs to happen twice.
So let's put it in a separate method
of call it start game
every game and then we'll call it here.
And also at start going into that as well.
And I think there's a couple of other things that we need to change here.
We need to set the score back to zero.
And we also need to set the scoring Choop back to zero.
So we're checking for the first one again.
I have a quick look at the other variables and see if any of these oversetting the velocity back to
zero would be a good idea as well.
Otherwise they might start falling down rather quickly.
The score and scoring cheap done game state with setting gravity's not changing anyway.
And these ones here all the tubes we're going to reset.
Great.
So with any luck now we should find that we get the game over screen and then when we tap the game over
screen we're back to the beginning of the game again and everything has been reset.
Let's give it a go.
OK let's check it out.
So I'll just die down there first.
Yep that looks fine.
And then restart.
OK wonderful.
And let's see if I can actually get myself a point.
There we go.
So we've got our one point and then it goes back to zero again when we restart wonderful.
So there's definitely a few improvements that can be made.
We've got they and they came over screen.
You might want to make the game over image a lot bigger as I said you might want to bring the score
to the fore.
You might want to give them a high score and you might want to stop the bird sort of floating slightly
strangely as it does there and make it fall to the ground regardless of where the bird was when it died.
But I'll leave all of that as as minor tweaks that you can make it to make the best flappy bird game
that you can imagine.
But I hope you've enjoyed the process and I hope you're now having some ideas about games that you could
make using these ideas.
One of the great thing about making games for fans is that they don't need to be big and complicated
just small little apps like flappy bird can be hugely popular.
So I hope you have some great ideas and use the skills that you've learned in the last few lectures
to put them into practice.
Best of luck.